# Copy HTTP URL plugin for Joplin
This plugin adds two new context-menu items for Joplin notes:
- **Copy HTTP URL**
- **Copy HTTP URL as Markdown**

These both put together an HTTP URL based on the note's ID, and copy it to the clipboard, e.g.:
```
https://joplin.orr.dev/note/#cf5b742e7b60423cb6cc3266513c736e
```

The latter option will generate Markdown, based on the note title, e.g.:
```
[My private note](https://joplin.orr.dev/note/#cf5b742e7b60423cb6cc3266513c736e)
```

## What is this URL?
The host `joplin.orr.dev` is a public webservice I created, which does nothing other than redirect to the `joplin://` URL that the ["Copy external link"](https://joplinapp.org/help/apps/external_links/) context-menu item provides.

However, since the URLs generated by this plugin are regular, public HTTP URLs, you can copy-paste them into whatever app you need, and they'll become clickable.

This plugin does **not** access your note content, or publish anything. It just generates links which, when clicked, cause your Joplin app to open, and display the relevant note.

### Implementation
I've [published an article](https://chris.orr.me.uk/article/open-joplin-note-with-public-url/) about this service which explains the straightforward, privacy preserving implementation.

### Privacy
The URLs generated by this plugin contain the Joplin ID of the relevant note. However, this value doesn't reveal any information about the note, you, or provide others access to your notes.

Clicking on a `joplin.orr.dev` link will cause your IP address and browser to be logged to the server (hosted by Cloudflare), but nothing else: not even the note ID.
